Title: Mito-san: The mitochondrion
Date: 2025-03-26
Category: Research
Tags: Research, Alife, Softbody, Godot, Simulation

Mito-san: The mitochondrion
===========================

### 2025-03-26

<video width="100%" height="auto" controls>
  <source src="{static}/images/26-March-2025-mitosan.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

This is pretty cool. Every little square that forms that square is moving on its own. Right now, they are moving randomly and I did put them in that starting position. I wanted to see what I'm looking for, or at least one of the things that I'm looking for.

It is pretty cool! The whole idea of putting an energy source that has collision and can be moved around was to see if this sort of organization can be built. It's not really the same thing, but it reminds me of the mitochondrion and how it sources the organism with energy (sorry, not a biologist I'm probably simplifying things a ton). Not only that, but how one of the theories of their origin is that mito-san (English is difficult, and I'm being respectful!) was a single cell organism that developed a endosymbiotic relationship with another cell. Mito-san produces something good for the big one, and they live happily ever after.

So there's a stretch. Mito-san in the video is a floppy disk that gathers energy and gives it to the squares that enter in its area. I didn't have plants for evolving Mito-san, but who knows? I have to finish things with square-guys first.

Also, if you read the last blog post you may have noticed that food aren't particles anymore. I did this way because I was a bit afraid of dealing with a lot of collisions. But it's something that I may come back later.

Right now, I want to make the squares share their energy when they are attached: Everybody dies if energy is down! Then, implement self-replication. Then build a simple probability table that will determine to which direction they move. I'm heavily tending to implement a delay that will make them keep a chosen direction for some steps, but not sure yet. Still thinking about the last post too.

Not related, but I also have being thinking on making a troll-game in pico8 just like the troll levels I often see in MarioMaker2... I know, random right? I'd let you know my progress. Until next time!